Fundamentals > Servers (#10002)
aspnet/Docs: aspnetcore/host-and-deploy/aspnet-core-module.md

---

> title: ASP.NET Core Module

Reviewer: This doc looks unwieldy now.  Wouldn't the conceptual overview material fit into the fundamentals/severs article?

author: guardrex
description: Learn how to configure the ASP.NET Core Module for hosting ASP.NET Core apps.
ms.author: riande
ms.custom: mvc
ms.date: 12/13/2018
uid: host-and-deploy/aspnet-core-module
---
# ASP.NET Core Module

By [Tom Dykstra](https://github.com/tdykstra), [Rick Strahl](https://github.com/RickStrahl), [Chris Ross](https://github.com/Tratcher), [Rick Anderson](https://twitter.com/RickAndMSFT), [Sourabh Shirhatti](https://twitter.com/sshirhatti), [Justin Kotalik](https://github.com/jkotalik), and [Luke Latham](https://github.com/guardrex)

::: moniker range=">= aspnetcore-2.2"

The ASP.NET Core Module is a native IIS module that plugs into the IIS pipeline to either:

* Host an ASP.NET Core app inside of the IIS worker process (`w3wp.exe`), called the [in-process hosting model](#in-process-hosting-model).

* Forward web requests to a backend ASP.NET Core app running the [Kestrel server](xref:fundamentals/servers/kestrel), called the [out-of-process hosting model](#out-of-process-hosting-model).

Supported Windows versions:

* Windows 7 or later
* Windows Server 2008 R2 or later

> When hosting in-process, the module uses an IIS in-process server implementation, IIS HTTP Server (`IISHttpServer`).

Reviewer 2: Is there a word missing before "IIS Http Server"? For example, "called".

When hosting out-of-process, the module only works with Kestrel. The module is incompatible with [HTTP.sys](xref:fundamentals/servers/httpsys).

## Hosting models

### In-process hosting model

> Using in-process hosting, an ASP.NET Core app runs in the same process as its IIS worker process. This removes the performance penalty of proxying requests over the loopback adapter when using the out-of-process hosting model. IIS handles process management with the [Windows Process Activation Service (WAS)](/iis/manage/provisioning-and-managing-iis/features-of-the-windows-process-activation-service-was).

Reviewer 2: Is "loopback adapter" defined somewhere?

The ASP.NET Core Module:

* Performs app initialization.
  * Loads the [CoreCLR](/dotnet/standard/glossary#coreclr).
  * Calls `Program.Main`.
* Handles the lifetime of the IIS native request.

The following diagram illustrates the relationship between IIS, the ASP.NET Core Module, and an app hosted in-process:

![ASP.NET Core Module](aspnet-core-module/_static/ancm-inprocess.png)

> A request arrives from the web to the kernel-mode HTTP.sys driver. The driver routes the native request to IIS on the website's configured port, usually 80 (HTTP) or 443 (HTTPS). The module receives the native request and passes it to IIS HTTP Server (`IISHttpServer`). IIS HTTP Server is an IIS in-process server implementation that converts the request from native to managed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A request arrives from the web to the kernel-mode HTTP.sys driver. The driver routes the native request to IIS on the website's configured port, usually 80 (HTTP) or 443 (HTTPS). The module receives the native request and passes it to IIS HTTP Server (`IISHttpServer`). IIS HTTP Server is an in-process IIS server implementation that converts the request from native to managed.
```

* Host an ASP.NET Core app inside of the IIS worker process (`w3wp.exe`), called the [in-process hosting model](#in-process-hosting-model).
* Forward web requests to a backend ASP.NET Core app running the [Kestrel server](xref:fundamentals/servers/kestrel), called the [out-of-process hosting model](#out-of-process-hosting-model).

Supported Windows versions:

* Windows 7 or later
* Windows Server 2008 R2 or later

When hosting in-process, the module uses an in-process server implementation for IIS, called IIS HTTP Server (`IISHttpServer`).

When hosting out-of-process, the module only works with Kestrel. The module is incompatible with [HTTP.sys](xref:fundamentals/servers/httpsys).

## Hosting models

### In-process hosting model

To configure an app for in-process hosting, add the `<AspNetCoreHostingModel>` property to the app's project file with a value of `InProcess` (out-of-process hosting is set with `OutOfProcess`):

```xml
<PropertyGroup>
  <AspNetCoreHostingModel>InProcess</AspNetCoreHostingModel>
</PropertyGroup>
```

If the `<AspNetCoreHostingModel>` property isn't present in the file, the default value is `OutOfProcess`.

> The following characteristics apply when hosting in-process:

Reviewer: "characteristics" seem to fit more in the conceptual overview doc than in this configuration doc.

Author: These are *implementation characteristics*. I don't think these are "fundamental" concepts ... Do readers really need to be bogged down in these details when they're trying to get their bearings?

* requestTimeout
* Use of app_offline.htm
* bitness issue
* host setup
* client disconnects
* working directory

Except for the images and a few sentences, I still cringe a bit at moving as much back to *Servers* as we just did ... however ...

The current split of content back into Servers doesn't seem to require the reader to go back to that topic for a successful deployment. Therefore, I don't think that links back out to that topic are currently required. If these characteristics are moved out, then I'll need to put links in at the top, and readers will need to go back out to get these details. We'd be splitting implementation details across two topics.

Anywho ... just my 2&cent; ... let me know what you want to do.

Reviewer: Feel free to follow your own inclination.  At this point you're more familiar than I am with the new material and how everything fits together.

  For sample code that sets the app's current directory, see the [CurrentDirectoryHelpers class](https://github.com/aspnet/Docs/tree/master/aspnetcore/host-and-deploy/aspnet-core-module/samples_snapshot/2.x/CurrentDirectoryHelpers.cs). Call the `SetCurrentDirectory` method. Subsequent calls to <xref:System.IO.Directory.GetCurrentDirectory*> provide the app's directory.

### Out-of-process hosting model

To configure an app for out-of-process hosting use either of the following approaches in the project file:

* Don't specify the `<AspNetCoreHostingModel>` property. If the `<AspNetCoreHostingModel>` property isn't present in the file, the default value is `OutOfProcess`.

> * Set the value of the `<AspNetCoreHostingModel>`property to `OutOfProcess` (in-process hosting is set with `InProcess`):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 * Set the value of the `<AspNetCoreHostingModel>` property to `OutOfProcess` (in-process hosting is set with `InProcess`):
```

`Process.GetCurrentProcess().ProcessName` reports `w3wp`/`iisexpress` (in-process) or `dotnet` (out-of-process).

### Out-of-process hosting model

Because ASP.NET Core apps run in a process separate from the IIS worker process, the module handles process management. The module starts the process for the ASP.NET Core app when the first request arrives and restarts the app if it shuts down or crashes. This is essentially the same behavior as seen with apps that run in-process that are managed by the [Windows Process Activation Service (WAS)](/iis/manage/provisioning-and-managing-iis/features-of-the-windows-process-activation-service-was).

The following diagram illustrates the relationship between IIS, the ASP.NET Core Module, and an app hosted out-of-process:

![ASP.NET Core Module](aspnet-core-module/_static/ancm-outofprocess.png)

> Requests arrive from the web to the kernel-mode HTTP.sys driver. The driver routes the requests to IIS on the website's configured port, usually 80 (HTTP) or 443 (HTTPS). The module forwards the requests to Kestrel on a random port for the app, which isn't port 80/443.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Requests arrive from the web to the kernel-mode HTTP.sys driver. The driver routes the requests to IIS on the website's configured port, usually 80 (HTTP) or 443 (HTTPS). The module forwards the requests to Kestrel on a random port for the app, which isn't port 80 or 443.
```

::: moniker-end

::: moniker range="< aspnetcore-2.2"

The ASP.NET Core Module is a native IIS module that plugs into the IIS pipeline to forward web requests to backend ASP.NET Core apps.

Supported Windows versions:

* Windows 7 or later
* Windows Server 2008 R2 or later

The module only works with Kestrel. The module is incompatible with [HTTP.sys](xref:fundamentals/servers/httpsys).

Because ASP.NET Core apps run in a process separate from the IIS worker process, the module also handles process management. The module starts the process for the ASP.NET Core app when the first request arrives and restarts the app if it crashes. This is essentially the same behavior as seen with ASP.NET 4.x apps that run in-process in IIS that are managed by the [Windows Process Activation Service (WAS)](/iis/manage/provisioning-and-managing-iis/features-of-the-windows-process-activation-service-was).

The following diagram illustrates the relationship between IIS, the ASP.NET Core Module, and an app:

![ASP.NET Core Module](aspnet-core-module/_static/ancm-outofprocess.png)

> Requests arrive from the web to the kernel-mode HTTP.sys driver. The driver routes the requests to IIS on the website's configured port, usually 80 (HTTP) or 443 (HTTPS). The module forwards the requests to Kestrel on a random port for the app, which isn't port 80/443.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Requests arrive from the web to the kernel-mode HTTP.sys driver. The driver routes the requests to IIS on the website's configured port, usually 80 (HTTP) or 443 (HTTPS). The module forwards the requests to Kestrel on a random port for the app, which isn't port 80 or 443.
```

The module specifies the port via an environment variable at startup, and the IIS Integration Middleware configures the server to listen on `http://localhost:{port}`. Additional checks are performed, and requests that don't originate from the module are rejected. The module doesn't support HTTPS forwarding, so requests are forwarded over HTTP even if received by IIS over HTTPS.

After Kestrel picks up the request from the module, the request is pushed into the ASP.NET Core middleware pipeline. The middleware pipeline handles the request and passes it on as an `HttpContext` instance to the app's logic. Middleware added by IIS Integration updates the scheme, remote IP, and pathbase to account for forwarding the request to Kestrel. The app's response is passed back to IIS, which pushes it back out to the HTTP client that initiated the request.

::: moniker-end

Many native modules, such as Windows Authentication, remain active. To learn more about IIS modules active with the module, see <xref:host-and-deploy/iis/modules>.

> The ASP.NET Core Module has a few other functions. The module can:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The ASP.NET Core Module can also do the following:
```

* Set environment variables for the worker process.
* Log stdout output to file storage for troubleshooting startup issues.
* Forward Windows authentication tokens.

## How to install and use the ASP.NET Core Module

> For detailed instructions on how to install and use the ASP.NET Core Module, see <xref:host-and-deploy/iis/index>. For information on configuring the module, see the <xref:host-and-deploy/aspnet-core-module>.

Reviewer: This links back to this same document.
